Stephen Jay Gould.
Six shelves of baseball books.
Three kinds of books here.
My wife's art books, my baseball books, and baseballs, and my antiquarian natural history.
Quite a place we should point out.
Well, I don't know what's... Yeah, I mean, sure.
Why not?
I don't know what's... The thing about the ball is I'm not a collector in the sense that I don't.
I mean, I'm really not in one important use of the term.
That is, I don't amass by purchase or with some sense of value or worth.
The books I have, and that's just your books.
I might say I use every one of them every month.
I don't get things unless I might use them, unless I want them for use.
I mean, similarly with the baseballs, I would never go out and
buy a ball or anything.
Except you have eight of them, though.
No, I mean, but they all came, I mean, every one of them has a story.
The Branca and Larson balls, those are probably the only purchased ones, but they were a gift.
There was an honorarium for a talk I gave.
The DiMaggio ball, the second from the left, my father, DiMaggio, hit it in 1950.
My father caught it.
Come on.
Oh, yeah, I was sitting right next to him.
And we mailed it to him and he signed it.
So was your father Steve
So is this to Steve, your father?
No, no, the first DiMaggio ball, the one that has the signature.
The second one, you know, 40 years later when I was very ill, a friend of mine, the old book publisher, Bill Freeman, was a golfing buddy of DiMaggio.
He didn't know I had that first ball, but he was a pal of DiMaggio.
We used to golf together, so he got DiMaggio to sign it for me.
It was really sweet.
And the one from Hank Aaron was given to me when I gave a talk at Spelman College, the black college in Atlanta.
And the one from Mickey Mantle was when I interviewed him.
So they all have stories.
How about the Branca?
How did you get the Branca?
The Branca and the Larson were an honorary.
Somebody gave him to me as an honorary.
It was a surprise.
No, the Larson is dated 56.
That's the date.
He just puts it down.
The moment, the one crowning moment of his life.
This new book,
I'm working on is not about collecting at all.
It's about books, book culture, libraries, texts.
I'm interested in how books enter the canon.
It's hard to say.
It's a very exciting time, and we're interviewing all kinds of wonderful people, and we'll see where it goes.
But I really am interested, I'm fascinated by the fact that
that.
You said a number of things, but the last time we spoke, you mentioned how there is a difference for you when you work with authentic documents, be they manuscripts as opposed to facsimiles, or first editions, that there really is something.
Oh, yeah, sure.
I don't know.
It's a very deep thing.
I guess not everybody feels it the same way, but there's
There's something about authenticity that really, I don't know how to put it, just strikes some people.
You go see the dinosaurs at the Museum of Natural History, and they're real bones, almost all of them.
You'd think that this is the bone that was 80 million years ago underlay the flesh of a real dinosaur.
You go up to the Tyrrell Museum,
has more material they have the real bones in the back rooms and almost everything is fiberglass and you say to yourself well it's very accurate and most people can't tell the difference but I know I'm a paleontologist this is fiberglass it looks exactly like a dinosaur bone but it's just a modern artifact so what it doesn't convey anything of the grandeur of it if I'm writing about Darwin and I'm holding a copy that
It was published in his lifetime of his own books.
I mean, is it a palpable book?
Is it something?
Sure, sure, definitely.
Don't you feel it?
Oh, of course.
Well, I wouldn't be here if I didn't.
And of course, in natural history, so many of the books are also enormously beautiful.
Now, you say you're not a collector, but you certainly are a bibliophile, I think.
Yeah, well, sure.
Tell me if you would, but we don't have to get up, but tell me about some of the things that you have and why you acquired them.
Now, you said earlier that you basically get things that you can use in your work or that help you, and there's research tools.
Yeah, of course.
Is that basically how the collection just developed from things I might use, but of course, as an essayist, I do have a very broad
field, and as a professional paleontologist, because I have a whole history of paleontology, which goes back to the beginnings of modern science, 17th century, even a couple of 16th century things.
And then I've got all of evolutionary theory, which just about covers all of biology.
So I have these, and then a lot of geology, which
I have this subject area that includes most of the natural history of sciences, including a lot of anthropology, all of which I write about, as an essayist at least, and that includes some of the most beautiful and famous kinds of publishing, particularly the 18th and 19th centuries.
Do you use that kind of as an excuse to get published?
Yeah, but I suppose.
But if I were just a more general bibliophile, there's so many other things one could collect.
I also love literature and history, but I don't, I mean, I never go out.
But now you wrote, right, I brought it with me.
This is a true bibliophile.
I wrote two of your books, which I particularly like, The Finders Keepers 1 and Time's Arrow.
And I think they both, certainly one is about collecting in a very different, tell me about, about
That book, for instance, what?
Finders Keepers?
Yeah.
Well, I've done a lot of work with Rosamund Purcell.
She's a very fine photographer with a very quirky sense of the macabre and the unusual.
And she's fascinated by collecting traditions, particularly the older.
Baroque traditions.
You have such a difference between the Baroque age and the Cabinet of Wonders, where people went out and tried to get the most bizarre, the most unusual, the biggest, in which you just try and get one of everything.
What is this book here?
This is Calciolati.
It's one of the 17th century collections.
That's wonderful, isn't it?
That's the grand old tradition of the Cabinet of Wonders.
Did you read Larry Weschler's book?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's of course what he's writing about.
He's like, employed a dwarf and a giant.
Who does this?
This is Cosby, who ended up with most of Albert Irvandi's collection.
C-O-S-P.
C-O-S-P-I.
I don't know where.
This is McCarthy, who had the Vatican collection.
So these are books on...
Natural history collections, yeah.
And what would you say is the oldest one here?
Gessner, 1551.
Includes a rare 1719 appendix.
Oh, look at that.
That's wonderful.
This is a different age.
Once you get through the Baroque age, then you get into the 18th century, you get into the Enlightenment age.
And what you want, then, is order and rationality.
You have a whole different aesthetic in the collection.
That's basically what Rosamund and I did in that.
We went from Peter the Great, who was the last of the Roque collectors.
I love that.
You mentioned also in that book, where it's actually in Time Zero, Time Cycle, where you say that once in lieu of an honorarium of George White, a bibliophile...
Yeah, Bernard.
Probably the first old book I had.
Yeah, that's what he gave me.
The Edition of Bernard's Theory of the Earth, 1680s, 1690s.
Yeah, the one I wrote about in Time's Arrow.
Now, that book was about three texts, right?
That book was about texts, Time's Arrow, your book.
Yeah, right.
I'm sorry, you're right.
Three texts.
and Hutton.
And obviously you had to have... Pardon me, I'm groping here.
I really want to talk to you.
I guess the entry point is I'm just fascinated by the fact that you... There are so many different scholars who go to microfiche or... Oh, I have to.
I have to.
I can't own everything.
But I do have a...
I do have a principle, which I'll follow if I can.
Whenever I write about something, I'll read the original source in the original language as long as I can do it.
I can read most European languages I need to in my field, but I'll always try and get the original.
And, you know, the Harvard Library, you don't usually have to work on a microfiche.
The Harvard Library usually has the original.
own a lot of them now in my own little area.
I can often go to my own library.
Pardon me for jumping around a little bit, but you had a couple of quotes in there.
Passion for collecting.
You say it's a full-time job, a blessed obsession.
That's why I don't have it, because I'm a writer.
Because you're a writer, and you don't have the time to throw yourself
So you really are not obsessed by .
.
I love having them, but the minute it takes time from writing, then something's wrong.
But you don't go pursuing them?
You don't go out and .
.
you don't go to the fairs and get on your hands and knees and get .
No, but I'll go to the end.
I mean, you don't write 24 hours a day.
If I'm in Boston and the antiquarian book fair comes to town, of course I'll go.
Is there anything on your want list that you'd love to find if it kind of came here?
Most of what I'd really like to have is too expensive at this point.
Well, for instance?
I'd like to have more than anything else.
Oh, some of the really early stuff, like Bellon and Rondelet, or Linnaeus's Hortus Clefortianus with Rondelet's wonderful drawings.
Pardon me.
If I go into these zones, it's been a long day.
So you really don't go out and, you don't go out searching for
No, but, you know, I'm in touch with them.
I get catalogs.
That talk you gave at the Grolier Club, for instance.
What was the general rubric of that particular?
I just took a—I hope they were reasonably well integrated, but I just chose a set of examples of how, using my own books, I was able to construct essays and learn things.
And that's the kind of thing that just now when I came in, you were obviously writing something, something that... It doesn't involve any of this stuff.
It's a big technical book I'm doing now on the structure of evolutionary theory.
Now, when I called you today, were you here?
Yeah.
See, I was under the mistaken impression that I was coming to your home.
This is my home.
You live here?
Yeah.
Really?
I said I'll show you the whole thing for you.
So tell me a little bit about
Being down here in Soho.
Soho is great.
Well, I'm a New Yorker.
I grew up.
I love it.
I grew up in Queens, so I've always been.
Look, I lived in Boston for 30 years, and I always remained a Yankee fan.
Isn't that a sign?
I've always identified myself as a New Yorker in the S.A.
You don't have to play with baseball, which is amazing.
He didn't sign anyway.
My best friend, I caught that DiMaggio ball sitting next to my father.
He did.
My friend had caught a Williams ball and mailed it to him, and he never got it back.
I was with my uncle once, and a Ted Williams ball, he had, and a little kid, and I was with him, and a little kid was badgering him, and he gave, I was 15 years old, he gave this kid a Ted Williams ball.
It was during batting practice, it wasn't a, I was, I mean, what about me?
That was the closest I ever came to a Ted Williams ball, but he
You could see his eyes.
He hit it and he watched.
He was great.
And he watched where that thing landed, you know, in batting practice.
And you also have some old baseball books up there.
I hope you don't think this is a waste of your time.
I really am very, very interested in talking to authors who somehow feel a communion with texts.
Oh, yeah, I do.
And it's not just as a collector.
I'm trying to get beyond this whole thing of collecting.
But are there any sacred texts that I use the word?
Oh, yes, of course.
I mean, no, I think that's a very well-chosen word, because if you have this viewpoint that authenticity... Because, look, I mean, the microfiche of the facsimile has all the content.
So it's not that.
It is something.
I don't want to use the word mysterious.
It's not mysterious, but it is something deeply psychological.
It's something about authenticity that stirs the soul.
And to that extent, if you accept it, then of course there are sacred texts.
I have several of them here.
Darwin's Origin of Species is a sacred text.
I don't have a first edition of The Origin.
It's not a rare book.
You can buy one any time you have $20,000.
But who wants it?
They don't have an expensive one.
Yeah, I mean, I don't need it.
I have the second edition, which has the same binding characteristics.
But I do have a first edition of Cuvier's On Small Fossil, the founding document of paleontology, because that's purchasable and reputable.
I happen to own Cuvier's personal copy of the debate, the famous 1830 debate he had with Jeff Croix.
at the Academy des Sciences in Paris, the famous debate that gave rise to the anecdotes late in Goethe's life, that when someone came to visit him in 1830 and Goethe was enthusing about the events in Paris, his friend just assumed that he was talking about the 1830 revolution, which was then occurring, and Goethe said, oh, no, no, you don't understand.
I'm not talking about that.
That's transient.
I'm talking about the great debate between Cubier and Geoffroy, which is basically a debate about functional versus structural approaches to anatomy.
And Geoffroy published the text of that and gave a copy to Cubier, which he never read.
He just stamped it.
But I've got that.
Now, if that's a sacred text, I don't know what is.
Oh, yeah, I have lots of sacred texts.
Do you feel anything?
I mean, a transference?
I mean, Geoffroy must have handed that copy to Kimye.
I don't know that they talked that much.
They certainly weren't friendly, but they were colleagues.
You can imagine that this object actually passed from Geoffroy's hand to Kimye.
To help me along, how would you spell those two names so I don't have
Is this an antique rail or something?
No, it's not.
We built it.
That's great.
And what kind of wood is this?
Rosewood, maybe?
Cherry.
Beautiful.
Thanks.
Oh, good.
Excellent.
Lots of sacred texts, and that's very relevant.
I have one letter I own from Charles Darwin, which is
present for my wife, and we're getting together.
I didn't realize when she didn't either.
It turns out to be a rather important unpublished letter that he wrote to Adam Sedgwick, his first teacher of geology, the last letter he ever wrote to him.
That's a sacred object, surely.
And I wrote an article about it.
It turned out to be a historical discovery.
It was just a piece of luck.
No idea the bookseller who sold it
No idea, but it's important.
There's a Darwin letter, and he probably checked the auction records of Darwin.
Well, this is a new one.
And slapped a price on it without any idea of context.
Yeah, he underpriced it.
He wasn't a scientific dealer.
He was a history dealer.
Otherwise, he'd have figured it out.
A couple years ago, when I was on the board of the Friends of the Goddard Library, Clark,
It was right before this Nicholson Banker piece in the New Yorker.
Oh, yeah.
I remember they asked you if you'd sign.
And you wrote back, and you signed something.
It was very graciously, but you felt that it was a bad idea to deaccession these card catalogs, that you weren't overly enthusiastic about.
They were not.
I mean, I do sign a couple cards for the card catalog.
Well, they were closing down the card catalog, and you said, I really am opposed to this.
These are palpable things.
The word you used was palpable as a matter of fact.
Yeah, they are.
I understand.
I mean, I'm not against electronic.
But how do you feel about this?
I mean, do you, especially in the areas of science and, I don't know, paleontology or other
This virtual revolution, if it's a revolution, I mean, this is coming, especially in the scientific area.
Yeah, but I don't think books will disappear.
There are aspects of virtuality that are very good for some in my world of museums to have online the world's holdings.
And as graphics improve, I suppose at some point you'll even have holographic images of fossils visualized in three-dimensionally.
The Smithsonian is doing a project of putting every Civil War monument.
I've been trying not to replicate that interview, but there is, by the way, very useful material.
I'm not trying to go over the same stuff.
I don't want to waste your time.
The virtual world is important.
Well, I was just going through this new Arbonne CD-ROM.
And I guess the one good thing it does is you can hear the chirp of every bird.
That's about it.
And they give you five views and you can hear the chirp.
I'm going to get into this probably.
I might even write about them.
I'm going out to Corvus next month, which is that unit of Microsoft, Bill Gates' unit.
And I did an interview today.
Oh, that's good in there.
I think, like, you want the OED online, because that's updated daily.
See, that's great.
Hard copy doesn't really do a lot for you.
But I don't want Britannica.
I mean, Britannica should be online.
That's not how I want to use it, because I want to hold the, I mean, there's no thrill or anything in Britannica.
I want to pull down a couple of volumes.
I want to bring them over to my typewriter.
I can't do that.
I mean, how can you be a researcher in the virtual world?
You look up one thing at a time at your terminal, and you can't sit surrounded by 20 different things, unless you have 20 different screens.
I suppose that's not generally what you do.
You have to bring things up sequentially, which is not the way to really do scholarship.
Scholarship, you have to have things simultaneously.
All right, you can bring up sequentially, print them out, use them later on.
There are ways, but, you know.
It's more than ambiance, is what you're saying.
Oh, yeah, sure.
It's just the way that research is done.
Also, you never get it.
I'll just give you my favorite example.
Okay.
And the things you just never get, you can get generic things electronically, but you'll never get this.
I mean, this book will be, someday this book will be online.
I may have shown
1551, the first major work on mammals.
It has dures, rhinoceros.
Oh, God, look at this.
Look at the paper, too, for 1551.
This is in remarkable shape.
Very little fox.
Now, has this been treated?
No, I don't think so.
A little bit of foxing there.
Yeah, some pages.
40 years.
That's Dura?
Yeah, that's the famous picture.
This picture is from Alvarez Dura, the most famous car.
Copyrights, he just took it.
But the point is, this book may go online someday.
You think so?
Nobody's ever going to translate it.
Maybe, but suppose it does.
It costs four bucks a page, but to digitize a book, you know.
But even if it does...
you'll never get what you have in this copy.
Gessner was a cousin of Zwingli, the Protestant reformer.
This copy was owned by a Catholic who, and the book was not on the index, but it was written by a dangerous Protestant.
And what he did...
who ever owned this is astonishing i mean it must have taken hundreds of hours clearly he didn't destroy the book because there's too much information in here but he blotted out the name of the author and of anybody who was suspect see the ink is faded but what he did here was to
He just changed carefully.
He didn't just ink it out.
I guess he loved it too much.
Somebody later put the name back in.
But see what he did?
He changed the... So you couldn't read the name.
But why?
And he did this on every page.
Look at this.
But did you try to figure that out?
Oh, yeah.
I mean, I know what name... Yeah, sure.
But why did he... No, I mean the why.
Why would he have done that?
Because you didn't want the name of some heretics in a book you were going to use.
Because he goes through everywhere.
There's...
He goes through every page, and every time there's a name, referator referred to by, but he blots out the name.
But he doesn't blot it out.
He blots it out carefully.
Which names?
You can look.
There's a whole index.
any Protestant, the name of anyone considered heretical.
Carefully, carefully, page by page.
Now, is he doing this to avoid damnation or to avoid getting in trouble, do you think?
No, I think to avoid this.
Hebrews are okay.
Chapter 34.
But he did it neatly, didn't he?
That's the point.
Look at that.
And yet, you can't read the name through that.
Now, have you written about this?
Well, someday.
And then you...
You see what he's written here.
He says, This dangerous and anathematized book, De Historia Animalium Quadrant.
Can you translate it for me?
This dangerous book, this dangerous and anathematized book.
And he gives the title.
I've never figured out.
It's as dictated by the Holy Roman Inquisitors.
some or other.
It must be punta at obliterata.
Something must be obliterated.
What was the name of this owner?
Did you know?
No, I don't know.
It's not here.
And the date of the book?
1551, but I don't know when it was done, but this is the early days.
But isn't it wonderful?
What's the short title of it?
Historia Animalium.
There it is.
Okay, good.
Historia and Emilia Libia.
Oh, that's wonderful.
So you'll never get that online.
The most you'll never get is the generic book.
Why don't you show me a few other favorites?
I'm not going to occupy all of your time here.
The last great Jesuit scholar, Athanasius Kierke.
Wundus Subterraneus.
1664.
This is Athanasius Kierke.
K-I-R-C-H-E-R-I.
No.
You've got to remember your gendered case.
K-I-R-C-H-E-R.
He was the greatest 17th century scholar.
Nobody's ever heard of him now because he's the last of the Neoplatonists.
I mean, he's a contemporary of Newton and Leibniz, but he holds to the old Neoplatonic view.
His world got superseded.
If you'd asked anyone in the 17th century who the greatest scholar in Europe was, you'd have probably heard nothing.
Oh, look at that.
That's wonderful.
This is that manetna, typus montis etne, ab autore observanti, as observed by the author in 1637.
In 1637.
And this is published in Amsterdam, I think I noticed on the title.
Oh, shit.
1664.
And have you written about this one?
No.
The interesting thing about this is these are two women.
This is the, or, no, that's probably John.
They are what, the printer and the engraver, you think, or?
No, it was probably both the printers.
I've seen books by.
What was that map there?
That was a very interesting map.
We didn't know much about the southern unknown land.
That's wonderful, isn't it?
And where did you get these?
Were these the things that you purchased?
Yeah, I bought them when they were cheaper.
I mean, I couldn't afford this today.
These are all folios.
Let's say 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, about 20 folios there.
Isn't that Webster Lake?
Lake Kukumajara.
Oh, Lake.
I don't know what it's called.
That's in Massachusetts?
It's also known as Webster Lake.
Yeah, I know.
Webster Mass.
Every reporter out there, you have to learn how to... I never learned how to spell it.
That's in the 50s on the first one.
There's a Darwin letter.
What do you think?
He went to get a... He really had to sit there with his hand.
He crossed down, because the post office had changed.
And he really did not inscribe any books.
Almost never.
Anything with Darwin's deal on it is a really big deal.
all sorts of letters, and they almost never used a manual.
I mean, there's a fair amount of Darwin letters.
I don't think his name is on more than a couple copies.
Because even when he sent publishers' copies, he'd have someone else sign.
That's right.
Pascal Norman, who has the definitive collection.
Even he has something that Darwin did to somebody down in... You just don't get an inscribed book by Darwin.
His collection is really extraordinary.
I'm not going to take up too much of your time.
We had an earlier interview.
We had a lot of good stuff in which I really said, and you did tell me you wanted to show me these things.
That was really the purpose of this.
I like to do things in situ, so to speak.
I'll show you around the house.
One of my favorites is this thing, which is .
This is the early 18th-century equivalent of a Carl Sagan TV special, or David Alpera's series.
What is it?
It's the 750 plates of Schweitzer's Physikistakra.
And how do we spell it, Schweitzer?
It's like that.
S-C-H-E-U-C-H-Z-E-R.
That's Jean-Jacques, with a hyphen between Jean and Jean.
Great Swiss savant of the early 18th century.
But he decided to do a work in which every biblical event that had a natural history meaning would be discussed.
So it's the Physica Sacre, the physics differential.
And this is Amsterdam.
What's that year when we knew most?
1732.
But what he did is he went through the whole Bible,
And, uh, every time any event had any natural history meaning, he had 17, so he has the creation of insects, for example.
Wonderful.
50 of them.
He had 17 engravers working on this full time.
You see, it was, it was a popularization.
It's, it's the Bible, science in the Bible.
Was it a popular book in its time?
Yeah.
I mean, for those who could afford it, but yeah, no, it was published.
See, this is the French and the French edition, um,
It was published in Dutch.
It was published in Latin.
See, the plates are in Latin and German, because they appeared in the same way.
The Opus Quinti Die, The Work of the Fifth Day.
But you see, what he did is he put the biblical story in the center, and then scientific knowledge around the border.
So you have the embryology of insects around the border,
And the creation of insects in the center.
I love it.
The spider's web just fans.
That's wonderful.
I mean, it's a wonderful place.
Marvelous.
Are these steel plates, you figure?
What are they?
They were done, I suppose.
And then we get to know his ark, for example.
It must be.
Or copper.
I mean, at least they were metal plates.
Yeah, metal plates, yeah.
Wood.
So you get to Noah's Ark, for example.
They're beautiful, aren't they?
To worry about whether there's enough room, right?
So he actually has here what appears to be almost an architectural reconstruction of Noah's Ark.
How many species that are known?
We must have some large pens there for the elephants.
These are fossils, but for him they were relics of the flood.
This is the Tower of Babel.
That's wonderful.
This is almost the kind of book that should be reissued in a way.
Don't you think that somebody should actually... It's one of the great... Here's Jacob.
This is the kind of thing that could benefit from a digitized... What do you get?
Jacob in his wrestling with the angel, he's...
They wrestle with the hip, right?
And so you have the bones of the hip along the outside of the muscles.
How long have you had this?
Now this is a five-volume set, I can see.
Ten years.
Did you go through every plate when you got it?
Yeah.
Was that a kick?
Sure.
And you knew what it was prior to acquiring it?
Unless you know what it is.
Did you get that from a bookseller, or something that was offered?
Well, there's other famous quotes.
This is later.
This is Heckel's Art Forms of Nature from 1904.
H-A-E-C-K-E-L, Ernst.
See, this is the great—he was a— Oh, look at that.
These are hand-colored, I would say, huh?
No.
No?
Well, what's the date?
1904 is past the age of hand-colored.
But, uh—
These are still in print, the plates, 100 plates.
This is the famous work in the movie about Oliver Sacks, Awakenings.
This is the book he's looking at that Robin Williams is looking at when he gets a book from the frogs.
In fact, that's going to be the cover of my next book, that one.
That is the frogs.
What is it?
That means frogs.
And is the next book going to be about frogs?
No, it's just using trends.
So you're using your stuff?
No, I use them, yeah.
That's great.
I have them to use.
British deer in their coins.
This is Morton's Crania Americana in my book, The Mismeasure of Man.
I did a whole analysis of the famous 1839.
treatise on the skulls of people of all races.
Crania, C-R-A-N-I, Americana, semicolon, on a comparative view of the skulls of various aboriginal nations of North and South America, to which, I love this, I love these titles, don't you, to which is prefixed an essay on the varieties of the human species by Samuel George Morton, M.D., Philadelphia,
1839.
Okay.
Wonderful plates done by an American lithographer named John Collins, who has a little insert, I think, here, saying he's ready to do work for other people and would be happy to be consulted.
So you like illustrated books, don't you?
I mean, yes.
I mean, who doesn't?
But here's John Collins announcing that he's available to do other photographs.
They can stand it.
I mean, it's just that many of the great works in my field are illustrated books.
It does come with the territory.
This one's not illustrated, but it's as sacred a text as any, right?
We're looking at the origin of species.
I just got a fourth edition of Peeps's Diary for a hundred bucks, and I was thrilled to get it.
It's not the first by any means, but for a hundred bucks.
That's not bad, is it?
on the Cape, beautiful leather-bounded Ralph Tickamsey.
If you want to just show me a little bit, is there anything else that I think you think I should know about this?
Don't forget, we did talk for an hour earlier, and that was a very good interview, and I saved a lot of the stuff.
with the expectation that you said tell me some wonderful things about Umberto Eco.
I'm going to see Eco at some point.
Very useful stuff.
I brought two books, which I would love for you to inscribe for me, and I'll just shut this up.
I mean, of all my books, that's the one that's strictly based on textual analysis.
A lot of my essays are, too, but none of my other full-scale books are textual in that sense.
The Mismeasure of Man,
wonderful life.
They're about fossils and things.
This one's really about text.
And is this from anything in your collection?
I showed you that one.
That's the funnest piece to burn it.
That's the one I was given as a gift.
That's what you mentioned right in the beginning of this book?
Yeah, I'll show it to you.
Excellent.
I'm driving back tonight.
Oh, yeah?
Oh, boy.
in the past was pretty effective.
I was writing a piece actually on Protestant Catholic wars for natural history just a while ago, and it, what was I going to say, I was reading about the 13th century attempt to wipe out the Albigensian so-called heresy.
They were just communal peoples of southern France, but they were
anti-wealth and anti-church hierarchy and things.
And they were so destroyed that this, even though most of the literature says it's very hard, and the Psychophia Britannica has this very telling line, it's very hard to really know anything about the Albigensians and what they believed, because almost all surviving texts were written by their enemies.
They were a major...
A major group of... The Albigensians.
The Albigensians of southern France, they were wiped out, and all their documents were wiped out.
And they wiped out their documents.
Yeah, the people and the documents were wiped out.
So all you have are the descriptions of the Inquisitors.
Can you think of any other instances?
I think a lot of these so-called heretical movements were done in Christianity.
But they invariably destroy the documents, too, don't they?
Yeah, sure.
Amazing.
Okay, I'm going to, if you'd kindly show me... Again, this is the one that George White gave me, but this... There it is, you did show that, I'm sorry.
That's, yep.
What Newton really worked on in physics was what he did in his youth.
What he was really interested in was biblical criticism and alchemy and things like that.
This is Newton's... This is Newton's famous chronology, his last book in which he tried to...
bring all the ancient chronologies together in conformity with the Bible.
What I'd be happy to do, by the way, if you'd like, I like doing it.
Start again.
No, come on.
Okay.
Function in French.
I'm sorry.
Okay.
I apologize.
Steel frame buildings.
Were these columns here?
Yeah, the columns are here because they're structural.
So you'd have one row.
But as you go out and look at it, I think it's remarkable to think that all these Victorian industrialists, these very practically minded men, they still had enough of an aesthetic sense that they put all these decorative cast iron fronts
which mimic all the forms of architecture.
You see all the dark columns on that one across the way.
When they say a shaftway, is that... The shaftway is the elevator space.
But they didn't have elevators, but they built the building.
They did?
On the 18th century?
I think they did.
I think that's the beginning of the elevator.
They may have been the old pulley types.
I almost thought this was a gallery when I came in.
So, no, but these were gallery spaces, but, so what we did is we kept the front part of it fairly open, the tin ceilings original.
This is a doll factory originally, and then it was,
owned by an artist who didn't... The whole building or just the floor?
No, just this floor.
Yeah, each floor.
There's still a couple of businesses on this street.
And next door there are two Orthodox Jewish Brothers who are on a wall and remnants business, for example.
So we kept the front part.
That was my wife's artwork.
So the office in there is also works with them in the living space.
So do you use it as a gallery then?
No, no, she has a studio.
It's nearby.
So this is basically this.
This is wonderful.
And then the living space is more back here.
I think Ron has a different work style.
I mean, in the midst of things, I need to be closed off like this.
So it's more work space.
And you put in all the wooden, I imagine, that's wonderful.
That's great.
And then for the pièce de résistance, really.
with the limestone full of fossil shells.
Look at that.
That rock is the same rock that was used for the facing stone of Lincoln Cathedral.
Really?
So you can still, it's the very same quarry.
It's full of fossil shells.
Where is that quarry?
It's a Jurassic limestone in England.
Wow.
Congratulations.
This one is wonderful.
I'm going to
Take my leave.
Thank you very much for spreading it.
May as well take my bow.
My tie.
That's your belt.
That's whatever that is.
Didn't feel like that tie should be that heavy.
Remember Pat the Bunny?
Do you ever read Pat the Bunny?
Children's book from the 1940s, the original interactive children's book.
Do what it says.
You'll say it's like me.
You'll do it.
Touch it?
Yeah.
The original doesn't do that.
How do you get the kids out of here so I can finish shaving?
My wife, Rhonda's doing a major sort of art show that's full of... I says, please do touch the artwork.